feat(#1782): documentation for cht-sync v2 (#1783)
medic/cht-docs: content/en/hosting/analytics/environment-variables.md

   - /building/guides/data/analytics/environment-variables
---

> There are three groups of environment variables. One for Postgres, one for CouchDB and one for DBT. These are found in the `.env` [file](https://github.com/medic/cht-sync/blob/main/env.template) and the `values.yaml` [file](https://github.com/medic/cht-sync/blob/main/deploy/cht_sync/values.yaml.template) for docker and Kubernetes respectively."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three groups of environment variables. One for Postgres, one for CouchDB and one for DBT. These are found in the `.env` [file](https://github.com/medic/cht-sync/blob/main/env.template) and the `values.yaml` [file](https://github.com/medic/cht-sync/blob/main/deploy/cht_sync/values.yaml.template) for docker and Kubernetes respectively.
```

   - /building/guides/data/analytics/environment-variables
---

> There are two environment variable groups in the `.env` file (if using Docker Compose), or in the `values.yaml` file (if using Kubernetes).
> 1. `POSTGRES_`: Used by PostgreSQL to establish the PostgreSQL database to synchronize CouchDB data to. They define the schema and table names to store the CouchDB data, as well as where the tables and views for the models defined in `CHT_PIPELINE_BRANCH_URL` will be created. 
> 2. `COUCHDB_`: Used by CouchDB to define the CouchDB instance to sync with. With `COUCHDB_DBS`, we can specify a list of databases to sync.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are three groups of environment variables. One for Postgres, one for CouchDB and one for DBT. These are found in the `.env` [file](https://github.com/medic/cht-sync/blob/main/env.template) and the `values.yaml` [file](https://github.com/medic/cht-sync/blob/main/deploy/cht_sync/values.yaml.template) for docker and Kubernetes respectively."
1. `POSTGRES_`: Used by PostgreSQL to establish the PostgreSQL database to synchronize CouchDB data to. They define the schema and table names to store the CouchDB data, as well as where the tables and views for the models defined in `CHT_PIPELINE_BRANCH_URL` will be created. 
2. `COUCHDB_`: Used by CouchDB to define the CouchDB instance to sync with. With `COUCHDB_DBS`, we can specify a list of databases to sync.
3. `DBT_`: Used by dbt to pull from the remote `git` repository, declare sync frequency and concurrency. 
```

| `COUCHDB_DBS`             | `"medic"`                                             | Comma separated list of databases to sync e.g `"medic, medic_sentinel"`                                                                     |
| `COUCHDB_HOST`            | `couchdb`                                             | Host of the CouchDB instance                                                                                                 |
| `COUCHDB_PORT`            | `5984`                                                | Port of the CouchDB instance                                                                                                 |
| `COUCHDB_SECURE`          | `false`                                               | Does the connection to CouchDB use HTTPS? |
| `DBT_THREAD_COUNT`          | 1                                               | Number of threads per DBT process |
| `DBT_BATCH_SIZE`          | 0                                               | Batch size for batched incremental runs |
| `DBT_LOCAL_PATH`          |                                                | When running DBT locally for development, the path to the models directory on the host |

> | `DBT_SELECTOR`          | ''                                               | If using separate DBT processes, the select condition to select a subset of the models for a single dbt process. |

Reviewer 2: Please add  either happy path values or commented out values for each of these in the [docker .env file](https://github.com/medic/cht-sync/blob/main/env.template) - thanks! Oh - maybe the `helm` [values file](https://github.com/medic/cht-sync/blob/main/deploy/cht_sync/values.yaml.template) too?

Reviewer 2: I'm now using the `v2` [branch](https://github.com/medic/cht-sync/pull/202/files) on sync and see you added default values - resolving!

| `COUCHDB_PASSWORD`        | `password`                                            | Password of the CouchDB instance                                                                                              |
| `COUCHDB_DBS`             | `"medic"`                                             | Comma separated list of databases to sync e.g `"medic, medic_sentinel"`                                                                     |
| `COUCHDB_HOST`            | `couchdb`                                             | Host of the CouchDB instance                                                                                                 |
| `COUCHDB_PORT`            | `5984`                                                | Port of the CouchDB instance                                                                                                 |
| `COUCHDB_SECURE`          | `false`                                               | Does the connection to CouchDB use HTTPS? |

> | `DBT_THREAD_COUNT`          | 1                                               | Number of threads per DBT process |

Reviewer: Can you add a deep link to the tuning docs?

```md
[Number of threads]({{< relref "hosting/analytics/tuning-dbt#threads" >}}) per DBT process
```

> | `DBT_BATCH_SIZE`          | 0                                               | Batch size for batched incremental runs |

Reviewer: Can you add a deep link to the tuning docs?

```md
[Batch size]({{< relref "hosting/analytics/tuning-dbt#batching" >}}) for batched incremental runs
```

| `DBT_LOCAL_PATH`          |                                                | When running DBT locally for development, the path to the models directory on the host |

> | `DBT_SELECTOR`          | ''                                               | If using separate DBT processes, the select condition to select a subset of the models for a single dbt process. |

Reviewer: Can you add a deep link to the tuning docs?

```md
If using separate DBT processes, the [select condition]({{< relref "hosting/analytics/tuning-dbt#multiple-dbt-containers" >}}) to select a subset of the models for a single dbt process.
```
